

We are extremely excited and hope to see you delegates in the committee and bring out a solution to this interesting, astounding yet not much discussed agenda. Though, we would suggest to not be completely dependent on this background guide rather consider it as a guideline for your research.
The executive board shall be fairly strict with the procedure, the discussion of agenda will be our priority. So don’t restrict your suggestions because of hesitations regarding procedures. Also, the discussions to be made shall be within the mandate of the committee.
Knowledge about the United Nations System, the Council, the Agenda and all the aspects of the agenda helps the delegate contribute more effectively in the Council. A well-researched delegate is always appreciated by the executive board. Being aware of the daunting task that this might seem to most delegates, we have made an attempt at preparing a comprehensive, yet unintimidating background guide that we hope shall serve to guide you through your research.
All the delegates should be prepared well in order to make the council’s direction and debate productive. After all, only then will you truly be able to represent your country in the best possible way. We encourage you to go beyond this background guide and delve into the extremities of the agenda to further enhance your knowledge of a burning global issue.
The background guide will have a basic outline of the agenda to help your understanding and express our expectations from you as a delegate. 
We hope to see a bunch of confident leaders, manipulative orators and well- researched delegates coming together and join this race of diplomats to form an amalgam of fruitful discussions.
Remember to speak up, and please do enjoy yourselves while what we hope shall be an enriching learning experience lasts. Do feel free to contact the executive board in case of any doubts or discrepancies. 


AGENDA:- THREATS OF NON STATE MILITARY ACTORS 
UN Conventions regarding Terrorism 
IHL promotes an environment that aims to eliminate violent threats against civilians and is the foundation for the UN’s regulations on this topic. The following section will examine how the UN has expanded its legal regulations from IRCR’s Protocol I so that it can more efficiently address the threats that are being imposed by NSAs and their terrorist activities. To date, the UN has adopted 13 major conventions to address the on-going use of terrorism. The first convention, the Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft, was signed in Tokyo (also known as the Aircraft Convention) on 14 September 1963. 
The Tokyo Convention established methods to handle in-flight terrorist acts and required states to take offenders into custody. Two more conventions were adopted in 1970- 71 to handle similar situations and behaviors.51 This topic evolved once again in 1988, with the Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at Airports Serving International Civil Aviation, where the UN supplemented the previous conventions, which were limited to domestic airports and flights, to now include international aviation.
 In 1973, the UN held the Convention of the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes Against Internationally Protected Persons (also known as the Diplomatic Agents Convention) defining who constitutes as an “internationally protected person” and established that states must penalize all parties that threaten, attempt, or carry out actions that compromised the “liberty of an internationally protected person.” The fifth UN convention against terrorism is the International Convention Against the Taking of Hostages (also known as the Hostages Convention), which is particularly relevant to this research because it shows how the UN has updated its framework to address new tactics of terrorism that violent NSAs employ. This convention acknowledges the impact and power that NSAs have obtained through kidnappings. The Hostages Convention stipulates that it is unlawful to “detain another person in order to compel a third, party, namely a State, an international intergovernmental organization, a natural or juridical person, or a group of persons, to do or abstain from doing any act as an explicit or implicit condition for the release of the hostage.” Through this convention, the UN made it illegal for a person or organization to exploit innocent individuals as bargaining chips in return for certain demands. 
Two UN conventions deal with the unlawful acts of violence created through nuclear material and plastic explosives, the transportation, and selling of these items. In 1980, the UN adopted the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (also known as the Nuclear Materials Convention), which made the possession, transportation, or use of nuclear materials to cause death or injury a criminal offense. The 1991 Convention on the Making of Plastic Explosives (also known as the Plastic Explosives Convention), specifically deals with the detonation of these items aboard aircraft.
 The Convention of the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation (also known as the Maritime Convention) and its protocol, the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Fixed Platforms Located on the Continental Shelf, were adopted in 1988, addressing maritime terrorism both against ships and fixed offshore platforms. 
Most recently, the UN has adopted conventions with the specific purpose of addressing terrorism. In 1997, the UN adopted the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings (also known as the Terrorist Bombing Convention) which stated that member states who adopted this convention would make it a crime within their state to organize, direct, carryout or be an accomplice to an offense that intentionally delivers, places, discharges or detonates an explosive or other lethal device in a public place, a government building or within modes of public transportation. This convention stated that the member state would prosecute any criminal offenders through appropriate penalties. This puts the responsibility to prosecute offenders upon member states, not upon the Security Council. Therefore, even if the Security Council deems a bombing a terrorist attack, unless member states agree to pursue the offenders, then this convention lacks any true strength or power.
In 1999, the UN adopted the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism (also known as the Terrorist Financing Convention) which required member states that had adopted this convention to take steps to prevent the financing of terrorist, through both directly or indirectly sources. Similar to the Bombing Convention, this convention only legally requires that member states who have adopted this convention be the only ones who are responsible for the prevention in the financing of terrorism. As of March 2004, 132 countries had signed the Terrorist Financing Convention yet only 112 have completed the ratification and acceptance process. Therefore, 80 member states are not held accountable for preventing the financing of terrorist. This detail is significant in that the UN cannot legally reprimand member states that have not signed this convention. Therefore there are 80 member states that are not directly working to prevent the financing of terrorism. 

Defining the main characteristics of armed groups 

Most practitioners agree that the main characteristics of armed groups should be identified prior to engagement. However, as armed groups differ considerably, from Mafia-like militias to religious movements to corporate armies, common descriptions should not be elaborated too specifically. Furthermore, the purpose of the definition should not be to exclude particular groups from protection strategies but to identify minimum organizational standards that would make contacts worthwhile. In this context, the main characteristics of armed groups can be described as follows:

1. A basic command structure 

The combatants are organized according to a unitary command structure and follow its instructions. The commanders have at least a minimum control over the conduct of their combatants, particularly regarding the group’s behaviour towards civilians. A dialogue on humanitarian issues with fragmented groups and groups with strong internal dissension are likely to be unproductive, if not counterproductive. 

2. The use of violence to achieve political ends

 The group is engaged in a political struggle, that is an attempt to redefine the political and legal basis of society through the use of violence. Violence is often employed not as a military tactic aiming for a takeover, but as a means to render the political status quo unsustainable. Violence in this context can take innumerable forms, particularly towards civilians; they include killing, raping, kidnapping, torture and extortion; attacks on crops, water sources, local markets and other civilian infrastructures, such as schools and administrative offices; and ambushes on commercial roads, power lines etc. Combatants often engage in parallel criminal activities, using force to extract resources for their own personal gain, through extortion, drug trafficking and illegal timber or diamond trading, for example. In many conflicts, such as those in Colombia and in Myanmar, the dual character of the combatants’ activities questions the cohesion of the groups as political entities. The extent to which combatants are allowed to engage in independent criminal activities indicates how well a group’s leaders control it.

 3. Independence from state control

 The issue of state control is often problematic. In some situations, it may be difficult to distinguish between autonomous pro-government forces, such as paramilitary groups in Colombia, and government-controlled paramilitary forces, such as the South Lebanese Army in Israeli-occupied Lebanon. Government control of paramilitary groups is difficult to assess, since it is often designed in part to make the government unaccountable for the acts committed by these forces. Logistical support from government forces to paramilitary groups, such as air transport, is an important but partial indicator of government control. The degree of the leaders’ control over the conduct of combatants remains an important indicator of the independence of the group.

THE SITUATION REGARDING NON-STATE MILITARY ACTORS IN THE MIDDLE EAST 

The 21st century has seen an increase in the number of actions against the so-called non-State military actors. Even though there is no such thing as an universally accepted definition on these groups, some features are commonly adopted when dealing with this issue: an organized group with, at least, a basic structure of command; its operations happening outside state control; the use of force to achieve political objectives; the irregularity of its military actions, in opposition to the most common military doctrines of regular armies; among others. Usually, common groups that turn into non-state military actors are rebel cells that challenge a State, non-internationally recognized representative entities and terrorist organizations, but they also may be troops from private military companies. 
The Middle East, by its turn, is not only an important region due to its geopolitical relevance – located in the crossroads of three continents and owning huge amounts of oil and natural gas –, but also for all the recent conflicts in order at such place. During the first decade of the 21st century, the US and some Western and regional allies have triggered a couple of wars against Al-Qaeda and States in the region supposedly linked to it in order to dismantle the so-called terrorist menace – which, in fact, after all, still persists. Although these wars are still impacting the region, and also the whole world, other non-state military actors that are not commonly connected to terrorism have been involved in important conflicts, such as Hezbollah and Hamas against the State of Israel, being also polemic for its connection with States like Iran, which tend to view them as legitimate representatives of resistance movements .There was also the development of a growing presence of private military companies fighting those wars in the Middle East. Therefore, this region of the world, nowadays, is home of maybe the most important and internationally well-known non-state military actors of our time. 
The UNCTC, as guarantor of international security and peace, must address such pressing and polemic issue. This topic is relevant not only due to the high polarization that it involves – since one side tends to see all these groups as radical and terrorist actors at the same time that the other side claims the importance to differentiate between all kinds of such groups – but also by the fact that the UN must evaluate all the efforts that it have been taking in regard to non-State military actors, especially after this whole decade of conflicts involving the Middle East and these groups, also updating its approach to them in such region, laying frameworks that must be used when dealing with this type of actors from now on .

Hezbollah 

Hezbollah, also known as the party of god is a radical shi'ia Muslim group fighting against Israel and western imperialism. The period following the formation of the state of Israel in 1948 saw a lot of violence, thousands of Palestinians were sent away from their homes to reside in the neighboring countries of Lebanon and Israel which angered these people who then formed the Palestinian liberation organization .the plo carried out attacks on Israel. The PLO's attacks on Israel's northern border prompted a full-scale invasion by Israeli troops in 1982, a conflict which angered south Lebanon's largely Shi'ia Muslim community — which directly suffered the consequences of Israel's military intervention. this angered community looked foe solutions . Their answer was the Iranian Islamic revolution which inspired Hassan Narsalah a religious scholar to form the Hezbollah. it started off as a small guerrilla group which helped attack the Israeli armed forces. The act that brought Hezbollah worldwide infamy came the following year: the 1983 suicide bombing of a U.S. Marine barracks in Beirut, which killed 241 American servicemen — the largest single-day death toll for the Marine Corps since Iwo Jima. The eventual U.S. pullout from Beirut in 1984 was seen as Hezbollah's first "victory" —strengthening their credibility within Lebanon as an organization that could truly bring about change. Over the years Hezbollah has established itself as a political organization holding seats in the Lebanese government. 
Funding of the Hezbollah: 
• Heroin trade in south East Asia 
• Marijuana plantations in Lebanon 
• Excessive cocaine smuggling and money laundering in South America 
• Receiving donations as part of spiritual donations 
• Alleged funding by the Islamic republic of Iran 
• Alleged weapon donations by security Council.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANISATION 

It is an organization founded in 1964 with the purpose of the "liberation of Palestine" through armed struggle. It is recognized as the "sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people" by over 100 states with which it holds diplomatic relations, and has enjoyed observer status at the United Nations since 1974. The PLO was considered by the United States and Israel to be a militant organization until the Madrid conference of 1991. In 1993, the PLO recognized Israel's right to exist in peace, accepted UN Security Council resolutions 242 and 338, and rejected "violence and terrorism"; in response, Israel officially recognized the PLO as the representative of the Palestinian people. In its infancy, the PLO was not associated with violence. But from 1967 on, it became dominated by an organization called Fatah - meaning liberation. This was the Syrian wing led by Yasser Arafat. It became more extreme as Israel became more successful militarily (1967 and 1973) and more intransigent about handing back land conquered from the Arabs. Even more extreme organizations were formed within this group such as 'black September' and ‘Palestinian Front for the Liberation of Palestine’. These two groups believed that the only way Israel could be forced into returning land was to use violence – and bombing, hijacking and murder became their modus operandi. black September was known to carry out one of the most notorious activity by this organization in which Israeli athletes were attacked in the Munich Olympics , 9 athletes and 5 German police men were killed ,no later was a plane hijacked by the group , demanding the release of all its captured members . 
A number of different groups have been part of the PLO coalition; these groups have their own prominent founders and their own organizational structures. Some of the leaders of these PLO constituent groups have, at times, been rivals or competitors of Arafat for support among Palestinians. Several are considered “rejectionist” groups, having opposed the September 13, 1993 Israel-PLO mutual recognition and subsequent Israeli-Palestinian interim agreements. Major groups, apart from Fatah, have included:

• The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), a Marxist group which suspended its participation in the PLO after the 1993 Israel Palestinian Declaration of Principles (Israel-PLO mutual recognition, agreement to seek a peaceful settlement). 

• The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command (PFLP-GC), led by Ahmad Jibril, a Damascus based faction that is politically close to Syria. It also suspended its participation in the PLO. The Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP), led by Nayif Hawatmeh, also a Marxist organization that resumed participation in the PLO in 1999. 

• The Palestine Liberation Front (PLF), a small group, led by Abu Abbas, that is still participating in the PLO. Three of these groups – the PFLP, the PFLP-GC, and the PLF – have claimed responsibility for acts of terrorism since the 1993 Declaration of Principles and are named by the State Department as FTO’s 
Attacks carried out by plo under Arafat: 
Feb. 21, 1970: Swissair flight 330, bound for Tel Aviv, is bombed in mid-flight by PFLP, a PLO member group. 47 people are killed. 
– May 8, 1970: PLO terrorists attack an Israeli school bus with bazooka fire, killing nine pupils and three teachers from Moshav Avivim 
– Sept. 6, 1970: TWA, Pan-Am, and BOAC airplanes are hijacked by PLO terrorists. 
– September 1970: Jordanian forces battle the PLO terrorist organization, driving its members out of Jordan after the group's violent activity threatens to destabilize the kingdom. The terrorists flee to Lebanon. This period in PLO history is called “Black September.” 
– May 1972: PFLP, part of the PLO, dispatches members of the Japanese Red Army to attack Lod Airport in Tel Aviv, killing 27 people. 
May 15, 1974: PLO terrorists infiltrating from Lebanon hold children hostage in Ma'alot school. 26 people, 21 of them children, are killed. 
November 1974: PLO takes responsibility for the PDFLP's Beit She'an murders in which 4 Israelis are killed. 
HAMAS 

Hamas is the largest of several Palestinian militant Islamist groups .Hamas is an Arabic acronym for the Islamic Resistance Movement, originating in 1987 after the beginning of the first intifada, or Palestinian uprising, against Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. It originally had the dual purpose of carrying out an armed struggle against Israel - led by its military wing, the Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades. But since 2005, it has also engaged in the Palestinian political process, becoming the first Islamist group in the Arab world to gain power democratically (before forcibly taking control of its stronghold of Gaza).Hamas is designated a terrorist organisation by Israel, the US, European Union, Canada and Japan due to its long record of attacks and its refusal to renounce violence. On the surface, this latest round of fighting, in the 27 years of war between Israel and Hamas, was sparked when members of Hamas in the West Bank murdered three Israeli youth, who were studying there on June 10th. Though the Hamas members appear to have acted without approval from their leadership, which nonetheless praised the attack, Israel responded by arresting large numbers of Hamas personnel in the West Bank and by launching air strikes against the group in Gaza. In another incident, the Israeli extremists murdered a Palestinian youth in Jerusalem and Israeli security forces cracked down on protests, compounding Palestinian outrage. Hamas and other Gaza groups launched dozens of rockets into Israel, which responded with many more air strikes. So far, the fighting has killed one Israeli and 230 Palestinians; two UN agencies have separately estimated that 70-plus percent of the fatalities are civilians. On Thursday, July 17th, 2014 Israeli ground forces invaded Gaza, which Israel says was to shut down tunnels that Hamas could use to cross into Israel. While Israel targets militants and Hamas targets civilians, Israel's disproportionate military strength and its willingness to target militants based in dense urban communities implies that Palestinian civilians are far more likely to be killed than any other group. However, these are just surface reasons. This conflict is far more convoluted than it appears.
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) 

ISIS stands with Al-Qaeda as one of the most dangerous terrorist groups in the world, after its many gains in the countries of Iraq and Syria. This terrorist group was formed in April 2013, under its former name Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), after growing out of Al-Qaeda in Iraq. It has since, been disavowed by AlQaeda, but has become one of the main jihadi groups fighting government forces in Syria and Iraq. The organization is led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Little is known about him, but it is believed that he was born in Samarra, north of Baghdad, in 1971 and joined the insurgency that erupted in Iraq soon after the 2003 US-led invasion. Unlike other rebel groups in Syria, ISIS is seen to be working towards an Islamic emirate that straddles Syria and Iraq. The group has seen major success on the military side. In March 2013, it took over the Syrian city of Raqqa - the first provincial capital to fall under rebel control. In January 2014, it capitalized on growing tension between Iraq's Sunni minority and Shialed government, by taking control of the predominantly Sunni city of Fallujah, in the western province of Anbar. It also seized large sections of the provincial capital, Ramadi, and has a presence in a number of towns near the Turkish and Syrian borders. ISIS has also built a reputation of being absolutely ruthless in terms of their ruling. 






 Funding:
 
The ISIS is currently one of the richest jihadi terrorist groups with assets worth over $3 billion dollars. This jihadi terrorist group is heavily funded and has a huge amount of resources to fall back on. Normally, terrorist groups would look for foreign aid to help them to survive, but the ISIS is one of the independent running terrorist groups that can produce large amounts of money. The question is where do they manage to get all of this money from? The ISIS makes huge amounts of money in extracting and selling Oil. It has many oil fields in the Syrian part of their regime. The lands it has control of, have major oil producing areas, which it then exploits in order to produce money. In its recent plans of expansions and future plans of attacks, the ISIS has picked out several oil fields in Iraq. Iraq is one of the major oil producing countries in the world and therefore it would be one country the ISIS would be looking to exploit. The ISIS’ other sources of income have been through its capturing of different towns and cities in both Syria and Iraq. With the capturing of these cities, the ISIS has been robbing banks and taking away valued artifacts and therefore is able to recover huge amounts of money. In terms of aid it receives, it has only recently been supported by US allied Middle Eastern countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar. This aid is being given through the wealthy Sunnis, who feel their fight is justified and want to see their ideas move forward. When it did come to light that the US allied Middle Eastern countries were funding the ISIS, the US came down extremely hard on these countries and all three countries have become extremely vigilant and alert about any transactions taking place to ISIS. 

Questions a resolution must answer 

1. What ties does your state have to the various actors (governments, ethnic groups, etc.) within Syria and Iraq? 
2. What can be done to assist the millions of refugees and those in need of humanitarian assistance? 
3. How should the international community respond to the violence throughout this region? 
4. What can the governments in both Iraq and Syria do to lessen the conflict? 
5. Should the United Nations Security Council authorize Peacekeepers to be sent to this region (if requested)? 
6. How would you provide safety to civilians during armed conflict? 
7. Is armed conflict the only way to overcome these terrorist groups? 
8. How would reduce support for these groups? 
9. Is interference of different countries a good way to go about it? 
10. What are the possible solutions to overcome the problem? 

